<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="cache" lang="&language;">
<title>Cache</title>
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author><firstname>Lauri</firstname><surname>Watts</surname></author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2009-11-20</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>Konqueror</keyword>
<keyword>Cache</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<para>This module allows you to control the size of the local cache
folder used by &konqueror;. Note that each user account on your
computer has a separate cache folder, and this folder is not
shared with other web browsers such as &Netscape;.</para>

<para>Storing local copies of web pages that you have visited allows
&konqueror; to quickly load their contents on subsequent visits. It
will only be necessary to reload the contents from the original site
if they have changed since your last visit, or if you click the reload
button in &konqueror;.</para>

<para>If you really do not want any of the web pages you visit to be
stored on your computer, you can disable &konqueror;'s disk cache by
clearing the checkbox labeled <guilabel>Use cache</guilabel>.</para>

<para>You can set here how aggressively &konqueror; keeps the cache up
to date. <guilabel>Keep cache in sync</guilabel> means that &konqueror;
will hit the cache for all objects, downloading them if they are not
there, and then display the item from the cache.  <guilabel>Use cache
whenever possible</guilabel> means that &konqueror; will try the cache,
and if an object is not there, it will directly download it for display.
<guilabel>Offline browsing mode</guilabel> means that &konqueror; will
try the cache, and if an object is not there, it will not attempt to
download it from the Internet.</para>

<para>You can control the size of the cache by typing a number into the
text box labeled <guilabel>Disk cache size</guilabel>.  This is the
average amount of space in kilobytes that the cache folder is allowed
to use. When the cache grows too large, &konqueror; will delete older
files to reduce the size of the cache folder.</para>

<para>This is however, only an average, and during a browsing session
the cache could become substantially larger.</para>

<para>You can use the <guibutton>Clear Cache</guibutton> button to empty
the cache at any time.</para>

</article>
