<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="kcmcss" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Appearance</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2009-12-01</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>CSS</keyword>
<keyword>Appearance</keyword>
<keyword>Font</keyword>
<keyword>CSS</keyword>
<keyword>Stylesheets</keyword>
<keyword>Accessibility</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="appearance">
<title>Appearance</title>
<para>This module consists of three tabs with configure options how to display web pages.</para>

<sect2 id="general">
<title>General</title> <!-- modified copy from khtml/index.docbook <sect2 id="kbrowse-html"-->

<para>The check box labeled <guilabel>Automatically load
images</guilabel> allows you to control whether images on web pages are
loaded by default. Unless you have a very slow connection, you will
probably want to leave this option selected, as there are many web pages
that are difficult to use without images. If you don't select the option
to automatically load images, you can still view the text on the page,
and then load the images if you need them.</para>

<para>If <guilabel>Draw frame around not completely loaded images</guilabel>
is checked, &konqueror; will draw a frame as a placeholder 
around images embedded in a web page that are not yet fully loaded. You 
will probably want to check this box to enhance your browsing experience, 
especially if have a slow network connection.</para>

<para>Many web pages use animated gif images, and these can be very
annoying, and in some cases, quite a drain on your system resources.
The <guilabel>Animations</guilabel> option lets you choose when
animations are enabled.  The default is enabled, but you can set this
to disabled, or to run the animation only once, even if the file
itself contains instructions that the animation should run more times,
or continuously.</para>

<para>The next setting is <guilabel>Underline links:</guilabel>. You can
choose to underline links <guilabel>Enabled</guilabel>.  If this option
is selected, any text on web pages that acts as a link will be shown in
an underlined font. While many web pages do use color to distinguish
text that acts as a link, underlining makes it very easy to spot
links.</para>

<para>If you don't like underlined links, you can choose
<guilabel>Disabled</guilabel>, so that no links are underlined.  Or you
can choose a middle ground, <guilabel>Only on Hover</guilabel>, so that links
are underlined when the mouse cursor is resting over them, and not
underlined the rest of the time.</para>

<note><para>The site's CSS definitions can override this value.</para></note>

<para><guilabel>Smooth scrolling</guilabel>
determines whether &konqueror; should use smooth steps to scroll &HTML; 
pages, or whole steps:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Always</guilabel>: Always use smooth steps 
when scrolling.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Never</guilabel>: Never use smooth scrolling, scroll 
with whole steps instead.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>When Efficient</guilabel>: Only use smooth 
scrolling on pages where it can be achieved with moderate usage of system 
resources.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="fonts"> <!-- modified copy from khtml/index.docbook <sect2 id="kbrowse-appearance"-->
<title>Fonts</title>
<para>Under this tab, you can select various options related to the use
of fonts. Although the shapes and sizes of fonts are often part of the
design of a web page, you can select some default settings for
&konqueror; to use.</para>

<para>The first thing you can set here is the font size.  There are two
settings which work together to allow you a comfortable browsing
experience.</para>

<para>Firstly, you can set a <guilabel>Minimum font size</guilabel>.
This means, even if the font size is set specifically in the page you
are viewing, &konqueror; will ignore that instruction and never show
smaller fonts than you set here.</para>

<para>Next you can set a <guilabel>Medium font size</guilabel>.  This is
not only the default size of text, used when the page does not specify
sizes, but it is also used as the base size that relative font sizes are
calculated against.  That is, the &HTML; instruction
<quote>smaller</quote>, it means smaller than the size you set for this
option.</para>

<para>For either option, you can select the exact font size in points by
using the up/down spin control (or just typing) next to the option
label.</para>

<para>These options are independent of each other.  Pages that do not
set a font size, or ask for the default, will display with the size
you set from <guilabel>Medium font size</guilabel>, while any pages
that ask for a size smaller than your <guilabel>Minimum font
size</guilabel> setting will instead show that size.  The one does not
affect the other.</para>

<para>The remaining options are for the fonts to be associated with
different types of markup used in &HTML; pages. Note
that many web pages may override these settings. For any type of font
(Standard, Fixed, Serif, &etc;) you can select a different font if you like.</para>

<para>Below this, you can set a <guilabel>Font size adjustment for this
encoding</guilabel>.  Sometimes the fonts you want to use for a
particular encoding or language are much larger or smaller than average,
so you can use this setting to bring them into line.</para>

<para>You can set a default encoding that &konqueror; should assume
pages are when rendering them.  The default setting is <guilabel>Use
Language Encoding</guilabel>, but you can change it to any encoding
available in the list.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="stylesheets">

<title>Stylesheets</title>

<sect3>
<title>Introduction</title>

<para><acronym>CSS</acronym> style sheets affect the way web pages
appear.  <acronym>CSS</acronym> stands for
<emphasis>C</emphasis>ascading <emphasis>S</emphasis>tyle
<emphasis>S</emphasis>heets.</para>

<para>&kde; can use its own stylesheet, based on simple defaults and
the color scheme you are using for your desktop.  &kde; can also use a
stylesheet that you have written yourself.  Finally, you can specify a
stylesheet in this module.  The options presented in this module are
tuned for accessibility purposes, especially for people with reduced
vision.</para>

<para>Your choices here affect every &kde; application that renders HTML
with &kde;'s own renderer, which is called khtml.  These include
&kmail;, &khelpcenter; and of course &konqueror;.  Choices here do not
affect other browsers such as &Netscape;.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="css-general">
<title>Stylesheets</title>

<para>This section contains the following options:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use default stylesheet</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>&kde; will use the default stylesheet.  Some of the colors will
default to those defined in your chosen color scheme.  Most settings are
easily overridden by the page you are viewing.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use user-defined stylesheet</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>&kde; will use a stylesheet that you have written yourself. You
can use the browse button to locate the stylesheet on your system.
<acronym>CSS</acronym> files traditionally have a <literal
role="extension">.css</literal> extension, but this is not
required.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use accessibility stylesheet</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Use the settings defined in the <guilabel>Customize</guilabel>
dialog.  Enabling this option will enable the <guibutton>Customize</guibutton> 
button lo launch a dialog to define stylesheet settings.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="css-customize">
<title>Customize</title>

<para>In this dialog you can set up a user stylesheet.  The options available are
only a subset of the instructions you can add in a stylesheet, and they
are geared towards people with reduced vision, to allow users to create
a stylesheet that makes web pages and the &kde; help files more
readable.</para>

<para>The options in this dialog are disabled unless you chose
<guilabel>Use accessibility stylesheet</guilabel>.</para>

<sect4>
<title><guilabel>Font Family</guilabel></title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Base family</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose a font family to use for body text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use same family for all text</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you enable this, then the same font family will be used for all
text, regardless of the settings on the page you are viewing.  This is
useful for pages which have used a decorative or hard to read font for
headlines.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>

<sect4>
<title>Font Size</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Base font size</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This is the default size for text on the page.  Many web sites set
their font sizes relative to this default, using <quote>larger</quote>
or <quote>+1</quote> to make the text bigger, and <quote>smaller</quote>
or <quote>-1</quote> to make the text smaller.</para>
<para>Many people design their web pages on platforms where the ordinary
default text size is too large for the average user to read, so it is
very common to come across web pages that have forced the font smaller
in this way.</para>
<para>This setting will allow you to set the default font to a
comfortable size, so that the relative sizes are also enlarged enough to
be comfortable.</para>
<para>Do not forget you can also have &konqueror; enforce a minimum size,
so that text is <emphasis>never</emphasis> too small to read.
<!-- Set that under Behavior, in the Web Browser section in &kcontrol;.
adapt to new documentation-->
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use same size for all elements</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you enable this option, then all text will be rendered at your
specified font size, regardless of the instructions the page contains.
Relative font sizes as discussed earlier, and even specific instructions
that text should be rendered at a certain size will be overridden
here.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>

<sect4>
<title>Images</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Suppress images</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you do not want to view images, you can turn this off
here.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Suppress background images</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>One major problem for reduced vision users is that background
images do not give sufficient contrast to allow them to read the text.
You can disable background images here, independently of your choice
above to view all images.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>

<sect4>
<title>Colors</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Black on white</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Many people with reduced vision find black text on a white screen
gives the most contrast, and is easiest to read.  If this applies to
you, you can set this here.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>White on black</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Many other people with reduced vision find the opposite to be
true, that white text on a black screen is easier to read.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Custom</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Still other people find that pure black and white, in either
order, is difficult to read.  You can set custom colors here for both
the <guilabel>Background</guilabel> and the
<guilabel>Foreground</guilabel>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use same color for all text</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Many web sites use a different, often contrasting color for
headings or other flourishes.  If this interferes with your ability to
read the content, you can enable this check box to have &kde; use the
colors you have set above for all text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect4>

<sect4>
<title>Preview</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Preview</guilabel> section allows you to see the effect of
your changes.  Several types of headings are displayed with your stylesheet, 
and a sentence in the default body text.</para>

<para>This should allow you to fine-tune your stylesheet until you have
something that you can comfortably read.</para>

<para>Happy surfing!</para>

</sect4>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
