<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="clock" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Date &amp; Time</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2013-12-05</date>
<releaseinfo>4.12</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>clock</keyword>
<keyword>date</keyword>
<keyword>time</keyword>
<keyword>set</keyword>
<keyword>configure</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="datetime">

<title>Date &amp; Time</title>

<para>You can use this module to alter the system date and time, using a
convenient graphical interface.</para>

<note><para>As these settings do not only affect you as a user, 
but rather the whole system, you must have system administrator (<systemitem
class="username">root</systemitem>) access to change the system date and
time.  If you do not have this access level, this module will only show
you the current settings, but your changes will not be saved.</para></note>

<sect2 id="date-change">
<title>Date and Time</title>

<para>If you check <guilabel>Set date and time automatically</guilabel> you are able
to select a <guilabel>Time server</guilabel> from the drop down box and all other 
settings in this dialog are disabled.</para>

<note>
<para>The applications <command>rdate</command> or <command>ntpdate</command> are used in  
this module to fetch date and time from a time server. This happens when you log in to &kde;
while being online or when you later connect to the Internet and access to time 
servers is possible.</para> 
<para>Both applications are simple <acronym>NTP</acronym> clients that set a system's clock 
to match the time obtained by communicating with one or more <acronym>NTP</acronym> servers. 
This is not sufficient, however, for maintaining an accurate clock in the long run. 
This is useful for occasionally setting the time on machines that do not have full-time 
network access, such as laptops.</para>
</note>

<para>If you do not use a time server, you are able to set the date manually 
using the lower half of the tab.  Simply
choose your month and year using the controls at the top of the calendar
and the day of the month by clicking on the day in the
calendar.</para>
<para>Use the controls at the bottom of the calendar
to select the current date, enter the date in the edit box or select the 
week of the year from the drop down box.</para>

<para>You set the time using the spin boxes at the bottom of the analog clock.
You can also directly enter your value.</para>
<!--Outdated
<note><para>The time is represented in 24 hour format.  If you want
the system time to be set to 8:00 PM, you need to set the hour spinbox
to <guilabel>20</guilabel> (8 + 12).  If you want the system time set
to 8:00 AM, you should set the hour spinbox to
<guilabel>8</guilabel>.</para></note>
-->
</sect2>

<sect2 id="date-time-tone">
<title>Time Zone</title>
<para>To set a new time zone, simply select your area from the list below.
Use the filter box to find the desired <guilabel>Area</guilabel> or <guilabel>Region</guilabel>.</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
