<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;" id="konq-general-behavior">
<title>General &konqueror; Behavior</title>
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Burkhard.Lueck;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2011-11-22</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.8</releaseinfo>

</articleinfo>
<para>On this page you find settings for home and start page and the behavior 
of tabbed browsing both for &konqueror;'s file manager and browser mode.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>When Konqueror starts</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This option determines which page is displayed when &konqueror; starts, 
the introduction page, your home page, a blank page or your bookmarks page.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Home page</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This is the &URL; (&eg; a
folder or a web page) where &konqueror; in browser mode will jump to
when the <guibutton>Home Page</guibutton> button in the toolbar is pressed. 
You can set a path that is your <guilabel>Home page</guilabel> by
typing into the text field, or using the <guiicon>browse</guiicon>
icon to select a local folder. &konqueror; needs to be restarted for 
changes to take effect.</para>
<para>When &konqueror; is used in file manager mode, the <guilabel>Home Page</guilabel> 
button in the toolbar is replaced by a <guilabel>Home Folder</guilabel> button 
which makes it jump to your local home folder instead.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Default web browser engine</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
This option provides an easy way to select the preferred web engine in &konqueror;, either 
<guilabel>KHTML</guilabel> or <guilabel>Webkit</guilabel>, if installed.
Using the <menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>View Mode</guimenuitem></menuchoice> 
menu allows you to change the web engine temporarily on the fly.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Open links in
new tab instead of in new window</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>&konqueror; defaults to a single window per page, but has the
capability to open multiple <firstterm>tabs</firstterm> inside a
single window. &konqueror; also, by default, has a &MMB; shortcut to
open any link in a new window.  If you enable <guilabel>Open links in
new tab instead of in new window</guilabel> you can &MMB; click on a
link to have it open in a new tab.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Open popups in new tab instead of in new window</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Whether or not JavaScript popups if allowed shall open in a new tab or in a 
new window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Open as tab in existing Konqueror when URL is called externally</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>When you click a &URL; in another &kde; program or call kfmclient to open a &URL;, 
the current desktop will be searched for a non-minimized &konqueror; and, if 
found, the &URL; opened as a new tab within it. Otherwise a new &konqueror; 
window will be opened with the required &URL;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Open new tabs in the background</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If you are using tabbed browsing, you can choose if a newly
opened tab becomes the active (<quote>front</quote>) tab, or goes to
the back.  On a slow Internet connection, or while browsing a page
that has a list of headlines or other links in a list, you may like to
have the new tabs load in the background while you continue reading.
In this case, enable this setting.  If you prefer to go
straight to the new page, leaving the old one in the background to
return to later, disable it.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Open new tab after current tab</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will open a new tab opened from a page after the current tab, instead 
of after the last tab.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Hide the tab bar when only one tab is open</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will display the tab bar only if there are two or more tabs. Otherwise 
it will always be displayed.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show close button on tabs</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will display close buttons inside each tab instead of websites' icons.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Middle-click on a tab to close it</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>When you click on a tab using the middle mouse button or mouse wheel, it 
will close that tab. &konqueror; needs to be restarted for changes to take 
effect.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Confirm when closing windows with multiple tabs</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If you close a window in &konqueror; that has multiple tabs
open, &konqueror; will ask you if you're sure that you meant to close
it.  You can toggle on and off this behavior with this
check box.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate previously used tab when closing the current tab</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>When checking this the previous used or opened tab will be activated when 
you close the current active tab instead of the one right to the current tab.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</article>
