<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="mouse" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Mouse</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author>&Brad.Hards; &Brad.Hards.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2013-12-05</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.12</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>This is the documentation for the &kde; &systemsettings; module that configures mice and other pointing devices.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>mouse</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="kcm_mouse">
<title>Mouse</title>

<para>This module allows you to configure your pointing device. Your
pointing device may be a mouse, a track ball, a touch-pad, or another piece
of hardware that performs a similar function.</para>

<para>This module is divided into several tabs:
<link linkend="mouse-general">General</link>,
<link linkend="mouse-advanced">Advanced</link> and
<link linkend="mouse-navigation">Mouse Navigation</link>.
There may also be one or more additional tabs if you have a Logitech mouse
or trackball, providing access to special features.
</para>

<sect2 id="mouse-general">
<title>General</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Button Order</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
If you are left-handed, you may
prefer to swap the functions of the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> and
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> buttons on your pointing device by choosing the
<quote>Left handed</quote> option. If your pointing device has more than two
buttons, only those that function as the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> and
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> buttons are affected. For example, if you have
a three-button mouse, the <mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> button is
unaffected.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Reverse scroll direction</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
With this check box selected, the scroll wheel (if any) will work in the opposite direction (so that if rolling the top of the scroll wheel towards you previously causes a scroll down, then it will now cause a scroll up). This may be useful to handle a unusual setup of the X server.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Double-click to open files and folders (select icons on first click)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para> If this option is not checked, icons/files will be opened with a
single click of the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse-button. This
default behavior is consistent with what you would expect when you click
links in most web browsers. If checked however, icons/files will be
opened with a double click, while a single click will only select the
icon or file. This is the behavior you may know from other desktops or
operating systems.</para>
<note>
<para>This option can be changed in the configuration dialogs of &dolphin; and &konqueror;
on the <guilabel>Navigation</guilabel> tab as well.</para>
</note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Single-click to open files and folders</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This is the default setting for &kde;. Clicking once on an icon
will open it.  To select you can drag around the icon(s) or <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton></keycombo> click,
or simply click and hold to drag it. You can also enable automatic selection of icons using the <guilabel>Automatically select icons</guilabel> check box, discussed below.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Change pointer shape over icons</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When this option is checked, the shape of the mouse pointer
changes whenever it is over an icon.</para>

<tip><para>This option should be checked in most situations. It gives
more visual feedback and says, in essence, if you click here, something
will happen.</para></tip>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Automatically select icons</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
As noted above, if you have <guilabel>Single-click to open files and folders</guilabel> selected, you can select icons by dragging around them, or by using <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton></keycombo> click. If you routinely need to select icons, you may want to enable this check box, which will allow icons to be selected automatically by pausing over the icon. The <guilabel>Delay:</guilabel> slider determines how long is required before the automatic selection takes effect.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="mouse-advanced">
<title>Advanced</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term id="peripherals-mouse-acceleration">
<guilabel>Pointer acceleration</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This option allows you to change the relationship
between the distance that the mouse pointer moves on the
screen and the relative movement of the physical device
itself (which may be a mouse, track-ball, or some other
pointing device.)</para>

<para>A high value for the acceleration multiplier will lead to large
movements of the mouse pointer on the screen, even when
you only make a small movement with the physical device.</para>

<tip><para>A multiplier between <guilabel>1x</guilabel> and
<guilabel>3x</guilabel> will works well for many systems.  With a multiplier
over <guilabel>3x</guilabel> the mouse pointer may become difficult to
control.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Pointer threshold</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The threshold is the smallest distance that the mouse pointer must
move on the screen before acceleration has any effect. If the movement
is within the threshold, the mouse pointer moves as if the acceleration
were set to <guilabel>1x</guilabel>.</para>

<para>Thus, when you make small movements with the physical device (&eg;
mouse), you still have fine control of the mouse pointer on the screen,
whereas larger movements of the physical device will move the mouse
pointer rapidly to different areas on the screen.</para>

<para>You can set the threshold by entering a value into the edit box or
by clicking the up/down arrows to the right of the box.</para>

<tip><para>In general, the higher you set the <guilabel>Pointer
acceleration</guilabel> value, the higher you will want to set the
<guilabel>Pointer threshold</guilabel> value.  For example, a
<guilabel>Pointer threshold</guilabel> of 4 pixels may
be appropriate for a <guilabel>Pointer Acceleration</guilabel> of
2x, but 10 pixels might be
better for 3x.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Double click interval</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This is the maximum amount of time between clicks for &kde; to
register a double click.  If you click twice, and the time between those
two clicks is less than this number, &kde; recognizes that as a double
click.  If the time between these two clicks is greater than this
number, &kde; recognizes those as two <emphasis>separate</emphasis>
single clicks.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Drag start time</guilabel> and <guilabel>Drag start
distance</guilabel></term>

<listitem>
<para>If you
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>click with the mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>drag within the time specified in <guilabel>Drag start
time</guilabel>, and </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>move a distance equal to or greater than the number (of
pixels) specified in <guilabel>Drag start distance</guilabel></para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

&kde; will drag the selected item.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mouse wheel scrolls by</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you have a wheel mouse, use the spin box to determine how many
lines of text one <quote>step</quote> of the mouse wheel will
scroll.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="mouse-navigation">
<title>Mouse Navigation</title>

<para>
This tab allows you to configure the keyboard number pad keys as a mouse-type device. This may be useful when you are working on a device without another pointing device, or where you have no other use for the number pad.
</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Move pointer with keyboard (using the num pad)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
To enable keyboard mouse mode, you need to select the check box labeled <guilabel>Move pointer with keyboard (using the num pad)</guilabel>. When you do this, the other settings will become enabled, and you can customize the keyboard pointer behavior further, if required.
</para>
<para>
The various keys on the number pad move in the direction you would expect. Note that you can move diagonally as well as up, down, left and right.  The <keycap>5</keycap> key emulates a click to a pointer button, typically &LMB;. You change which button is emulated by using the <keycap>/</keycap> key (which makes it &LMB;), <keycap>*</keycap> key (which makes it &MMB;) and <keycap>-</keycap> (which makes it &RMB;). Using the <keycap>+</keycap> emulates a double click to the selected pointer button. You can use the <keycap>0</keycap> key to emulate holding down the selected pointer button (for easy dragging), and then use the <keycap>.</keycap> to emulate releasing the selected pointer button.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Acceleration delay</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is the time (in milliseconds) between the initial key press and the first repeated motion event for mouse key acceleration.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Repeat interval</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is the time in milliseconds between repeated motion events for mouse key acceleration.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Acceleration time</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is the time in milliseconds before the pointer reaches a maximum speed for mouse key acceleration.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Maximum speed</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is the maximum speed in pixels per second the pointer can reach for mouse key acceleration.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Acceleration profile</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is the slope of the acceleration curve for mouse key acceleration.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="logitech-mouse">
<title>Logitech Support</title>

<para>
Some Logitech USB mice support special features, such as switching to a higher resolution, or
providing cordless status. If &kde; was built with libusb support, then you will get an additional
tab for each supported mouse that is plugged in.
</para>

<para>
The supported devices are:
</para>
<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>Wheel Mouse Optical</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>MouseMan Traveler</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>MouseMan Dual Optical</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>MX310 Optical Mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>MX510 Optical Mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>MX300 Optical Mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>MX500 Optical Mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>iFeel Mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Mouse Receiver</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Dual Receiver</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Cordless Freedom Optical</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Cordless Elite Duo</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>MX700 Optical Mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Cordless Optical Trackman</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Cordless MX Duo Receiver</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>MX100 Laser Mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Receiver for Cordless Presenter</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>
Not all devices support all capabilities (typically cordless devices do not
provide resolution switching, and of course only cordless devices support
cordless status reporting), so some parts of the tab will not be enabled for
some mouse types.
</para>

<para>
If the mouse supports resolution switching, the <guilabel>Sensor Resolution</guilabel>
radio button group will be enabled, and you can switch from <guilabel>400 counts per
inch</guilabel> to <guilabel>800 counts per inch</guilabel> and back. If you use
<guilabel>800 counts per inch</guilabel>, the same physical movement of the mouse
will cause a greater (roughly double) amount of motion of the cursor. This tends
to be popular amongst gamers.
</para>

<para>
If the mouse supports cordless reporting, the <guilabel>Battery Level</guilabel>
and <guilabel>RF Channel</guilabel> widgets will be enabled. You can only change
the <guilabel>RF Channel</guilabel> if your mouse has two channel support.
</para>
<!--FIXME outdated
<sect3 id="logitech-perms">
<title>Fixing permission problems on Logitech mice</title>

<para>
Because of the way USB devices work, the code that accesses the current
status on Logitech mice needs to be able to write to the mouse. This
should be handled by your distribution, but if not, you may need to do some
configuration yourself.
</para>

<para>
On a &Linux; system, you should use the hotplug system to change the ownership
and permissions on the mouse entry in <filename>/proc/bus/usb</filename>. One
way to do this is to create a short script
(<filename>/etc/hotplug/usb/consoleUserPerms</filename>) that changes the ownership
and permissions, as shown below:
</para>

<informalexample>
<programlisting>
<![CDATA[
#!/bin/bash
#
# /etc/hotplug/usb/consoleUserPerms
#
# Sets up newly plugged in USB device so that the user who owns
# the console according to pam_console can access it from user space
#
# Note that for this script to work, you'll need all of the following:
# a) a line in the file /etc/hotplug/usb.usermap or another usermap file
#    in /etc/hotplug/usb/ that corresponds to the device you are using.
# b) a setup using pam_console creates the respective lock files
#    containing the name of the respective user. You can check for that
#    by executing "echo `cat /var/{run,lock}/console.lock`" and
#    verifying the appropriate user is mentioned somewhere there.
# c) a Linux kernel supporting hotplug and usbdevfs
# d) the hotplug package (http://linux-hotplug.sourceforge.net/)
#
# In the usermap file, the first field "usb module" should be named
# "consoleUserPerms" to invoke this script.
#

if [ "${ACTION}" = "add" ] && [ -f "${DEVICE}" ]
then
# New code, using lock files instead of copying /dev/console permissions
# This also works with non-kdm logins (e.g. on a virtual terminal)
# Idea and code from Nalin Dahyabhai <nalin@redhat.com>
    if [ -f /var/run/console.lock ]
    then
        CONSOLEOWNER=`cat /var/run/console.lock`
    elif [ -f /var/lock/console.lock ]
    then
        CONSOLEOWNER=`cat /var/lock/console.lock`
    else
        CONSOLEOWNER=
    fi
    if [ -n "$CONSOLEOWNER" ]
    then
        chmod 0000 "${DEVICE}"
        chown "$CONSOLEOWNER" "${DEVICE}"
        chmod 0600 "${DEVICE}"
    fi
fi
]]>
</programlisting>
</informalexample>

<para>
The usermap file that goes with this is
<filename>/etc/hotplug/usb/logitechmouse.usermap</filename>, as
shown below:
</para>

<informalexample>
<programlisting>
<![CDATA[
# script           match_flags idVendor idProduct bcdDevice_lo bcdDevice_hi bDeviceClass bDeviceSubClass bDeviceProtocol bInterfaceClass bInterfaceSubClass bInterfaceProtocol driver_info
# Wheel Mouse Optical
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc00e    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# MouseMan Traveler
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc00f    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# MouseMan Dual Optical
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc012    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# MX310 Optical Mouse
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc01b    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# MX510 Optical Mouse
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc01d    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# MX300 Optical Mouse
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc024    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# MX500 Optical Mouse
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc025    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# iFeel Mouse
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc031    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# Mouse Receiver
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc501    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# Dual Receiver
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc502    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# Cordless Freedom Optical
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc504    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# Cordless Elite Duo
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc505    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# MX700 Optical Mouse
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc506    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# Cordless Optical Trackman
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc508    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# Cordless MX Duo Receiver
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc50b    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# MX100 Laser Mouse
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc50e    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
# Receiver for Cordless Presenter
consoleUserPerms     0x0003      0x046d   0xc702    0x0000       0xffff      0x00         0x00            0x00            0x00            0x00               0x00               0x00000000
]]>
</programlisting>
</informalexample>

<para>
That should be all that is needed on &Linux; - just copy the files into
<filename>/etc/hotplug/usb/</filename>, and when the mouse is
plugged in, the ownership and permissions should be changed
so that the user at the console can access the mouse.
</para>
</sect3>
-->
</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
