<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>
<article id="phonon" lang="&language;">
<title>Audio and Video Settings</title>
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author><firstname>Matthias</firstname><surname>Kretz</surname></author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2013-12-05</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.12</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>hardware</keyword>
<keyword>multimedia</keyword>
<keyword>sound</keyword>
<keyword>video</keyword>
<keyword>backend</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<para>
This &systemsettings; module allows you to configure the sound and video device
preference and the backends used by Phonon.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Device Preference</guilabel> tab</term>
<listitem><para>
On the left you are presented a tree list with various categories of playback and recording. 
For each category you may choose what device you wish to use.</para>
<para>The <guilabel>Audio Playback</guilabel> and <guilabel>Audio Recording</guilabel>
items define the default ordering of devices which can be overridden by 
each sub items.</para>
<para>Clicking the <guibutton>Apply Device List To</guibutton> button shows a dialog 
which enables you to copy the selected setting from one category to many others.</para>
<para>Highlight a category and the available devices for this category are displayed in the 
list on the right. The order in this list determines the preference of the output and capture 
devices. If for some reason the first device cannot be used Phonon will try to use the second, &etc;</para>
<para>Use the <guibutton>Prefer</guibutton> and <guibutton>Defer</guibutton> buttons to change the order 
and the <guibutton>Test</guibutton> button to play a test sound on the selected device.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Audio Hardware Setup</guilabel> tab</term>
<listitem><para>
The various drop down boxes in this tab allow full control over all cards that are attached 
to the system.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Hardware</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Select the <guilabel>Sound Card</guilabel> and an available 
<guilabel>Profile</guilabel> to be used.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Device Configuration</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Select the <guilabel>Sound Device</guilabel> and a <guilabel>Connector</guilabel>.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Speaker Placement and Testing</guilabel> or <guilabel>Input Levels</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>For a playback device: The buttons on this pane allow you to test each speaker separately.
</para>
<para>For a recording device: A slider shows the <guilabel>Input Levels</guilabel> 
of the selected <guilabel>Connector</guilabel>.
</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>
</variablelist>



</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Backend</guilabel> tab</term>
<listitem><para>
On the left side of this module a list of Phonon backends found on your system is shown. 
The order here determines the order Phonon will use the backends.
Use the <guibutton>Prefer</guibutton> and <guibutton>Defer</guibutton> buttons 
to change this order.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</article>
