<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>
<article id="solid-device-automounter" lang="&language;">
<title>Removable Devices</title>
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author><firstname>Trever</firstname><surname>Fischer</surname></author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2021-04-08</date>
<releaseinfo>&plasma; 5.20</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>automount</keyword>
<keyword>device</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<para>
This dialog allows you to configure automatic handling of removable storage media.
</para>

<para>If you enable the automatic mounting features in this module, you will not need to use
the device notifier applet or the navigation panel in the file manager to get access to a 
recently plugged in device.
</para>

<para>At the top of the dialog you find the global settings, which can be overridden
for each single device in the <guilabel>Device Overrides</guilabel> list.
For a single-user desktop it is recommended to have all the 
check boxes above the overrides list enabled. 
</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Enable automatic mounting of removable media</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
When this is unchecked, no device automounting of any kind will happen, 
regardless of anything selected in the <guilabel>Device Overrides</guilabel> section.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Only automatically mount removable media that has been 
manually mounted before</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
When this is checked, &plasma; will only automatically mount devices it
remembers. A device is <quote>remembered</quote> if it has ever been mounted before; &eg; 
plugging in a &USB; media player to charge is not sufficient to <quote>remember</quote> it.
If the files are not accessed, &plasma;
will not automatically mount the player next time it is seen. Once they have 
been accessed, however, &plasma; will remember to automatically make the contents
accessible to your system.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Automatically mount all removable media at login</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
If any removable storage devices are connected to your system when you login 
to your desktop, &plasma; will automatically make the contents available to your
system for other programs to read.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Automatically mount removable media when attached</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
When this is checked, &plasma; will automatically make the contents of any
storage device available to the system when it is plugged in or attached.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Automatic mount</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
This list contains the storage devices known to &plasma;. If <guilabel>On Login</guilabel>
is checked, the device will be automatically mounted even though <guilabel>Automatically mount 
all removable media at login</guilabel> is unchecked. The same applies for 
<guilabel>On Attach</guilabel>.</para>
<para>
If <guilabel>Enable automatic mounting of removable media</guilabel> is unchecked, the 
overrides do not apply and no devices will be automatically mounted.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guibutton>Forget Device</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>
Clicking this button causes &plasma; to <quote>forget</quote> that the selected devices ever
existed. This is only useful if <guilabel>Only automatically mount removable media 
that has been manually mounted before</guilabel> is checked. Once a device is 
forgotten and &plasma; is set to only automatically mount familiar devices, the
device will not be automatically mounted.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para>
</para>
</article>
