<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="ebrowsing" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Web Shortcuts</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<author>&Yves.Arrouye; &Yves.Arrouye.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2013-05-30</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.11</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>enhanced browsing</keyword>
<keyword>web shortcuts</keyword>
<keyword>browsing</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="ebrowse">

<title>Web Shortcuts</title>

<sect2 id="ebrowse-intro">

<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&konqueror; offers some features to enhance your browsing
experience. One such feature is <emphasis>Web Shortcuts</emphasis>.</para>

<para>You may already have noticed that &kde; is very Internet friendly.
For example, you can click on the <guimenuitem>Run</guimenuitem> menu
item or type the keyboard shortcut assigned to that command (<keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>,
unless you have changed it) and type in a &URI;.
<footnote><para>Uniform Resource Identifier. A standardized way of
referring to a resource such as a file on your computer, a World Wide
Web address, an email address,
<abbrev>etc...</abbrev>.</para></footnote></para>

<para>Web shortcuts, on the other hand, let you come up with new pseudo
&URL; schemes, or shortcuts, that basically let you
<emphasis>parameterize</emphasis> commonly used
&URI;s. For example, if you like the Google search
engine, you can configure &kde; so that a pseudo &URL;
scheme like <emphasis>gg</emphasis> will trigger a search on
Google. This way, typing <userinput>gg:<replaceable>my
query</replaceable></userinput> will search for <replaceable>my
query</replaceable> on Google.</para>

<note><para>One can see why we call these pseudo &URL;
schemes. They are used like a &URL; scheme, but the
input is not properly &URL; encoded, so one will type
<userinput>google:kde apps</userinput> and not
<userinput>google:kde+apps</userinput>.</para></note>

<para>You can use web
shortcuts wherever you would normally use
&URI;s. Shortcuts for several search engines should
already be configured on your system, but you can add new keywords, and
change or delete existing ones in this module. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="ebrowse-use">

<title>Web Shortcuts</title>

<para>The descriptive names of defined web shortcuts are shown in a
list box. As with other lists in &kde;, you can click on a column
heading to toggle the sort order between ascending and
descending, and you can resize the columns.</para>

<para>At the bottom of the list the option <guilabel>Enable Web shortcuts</guilabel> 
has to be checked to enable this feature. Use the buttons on the right to 
create, modify or delete shortcuts.</para>

<para>If <guilabel>Use preferred shortcuts only</guilabel> is checked, only
web shortcuts marked as preferred in the third column of the list
are used in places where only a few select 
shortcuts can be shown at one time.
</para>
 
<para>Below the list you find two additional options:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Default Web shortcuts</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Select the search engine to use for input boxes that provide automatic 
lookup services when you type in normal words and phrases instead of a &URL;. 
To disable this feature select <guilabel>None</guilabel> from the list.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Keyword delimiter</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose the delimiter that separates the keyword from the phrase or word to 
be searched.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>If you double-click on a specific entry in the list of defined
search providers or click the <guibutton>Change</guibutton> button, 
the details for that entry are shown in a popup
dialog.  In addition to the descriptive name for the item, you can
also see the &URI; which is used, as well as the
associated shortcuts which you can type anywhere in &kde; where
&URI;s are expected. A given search provider can have
multiple shortcuts, each separated by a comma.</para>

<para> The text boxes are used not only for displaying information
about an item in the list of web shortcuts, but also for modifying or
adding new items.</para>

<para>You can change the contents of either the <guilabel>Shortcut 
URL</guilabel> or the <guilabel>Shortcuts</guilabel> text box.
Click <guibutton>OK</guibutton> to save your changes or
<guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> to exit the dialog with no
changes.</para>

<para>If you examine the contents of the <guilabel>Shortcuts 
URL</guilabel> text box, you will find that most, if not all of the
entries have a <option>\{@}</option> in them. This sequence of four
characters acts as a parameter, which is to say that they are replaced
by whatever you happen to type after the colon character that is
between a shortcut and its parameter. To add this query placeholder 
to a shortcuts url, click on the button at the right of the text box.
Let's consider some examples to clarify how to use web shortcuts.</para>

<para>Suppose that the &URI; is
<userinput>http://www.google.com/search?q=\{@}</userinput>, and
<userinput>gg</userinput> is a shortcut to this
&URI;. Then, typing
<userinput>gg:<replaceable>alpha</replaceable></userinput> is
equivalent to
<userinput>http://www.google.com/search?q=<replaceable>alpha</replaceable></userinput>.
You could type anything after the <userinput>:</userinput> character;
whatever you have typed simply replaces the <option>\{@}</option>
characters, after being converted to the appropriate character set for
the search provider and then properly
&URL;-encoded. Only the <option>\{@}</option> part of
the search &URI; is touched, the rest of it is
supposed to be properly &URL;-encoded already and is
left as is.</para>

<para>You can also have shortcuts without parameters. Suppose the
&URI; was
<emphasis>file:/home/me/mydocs/calligra/words</emphasis> and the
shortcut was <emphasis>mywords</emphasis>. Then, typing
<userinput>mywords:</userinput> is the same as typing the complete
&URI;. Note that there is nothing after the colon
when typing the shortcut, but the colon is still required in order for
the shortcut to be recognized as such.</para>

<para>By now, you will have understood that even though these shortcuts
are called web shortcuts, they really are shortcuts to parameterized
&URI;s, which can point not only to web sites like
search engines but also to anything else that can be pointed to by a
&URI;. Web shortcuts are a very powerful feature of
navigation in &kde;.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
