<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="useragent" lang="&language;">
<title>Browser Identification</title>
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2009-11-24</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>user agent</keyword>
<keyword>browser</keyword>
<keyword>identification</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="user-agent">
<title>Browser Identification</title>


<sect2 id="user-agent-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>When &konqueror; connects to a web site to retrieve information,
some basic identifying information is sent to the web site in the form
of a <quote>User Agent</quote> header.</para>

<para>Because of minor differences in the way that different web
browsers function, web sites that rely too much on a single browser may
sometimes not display as intended when viewed using another
browser. Some web sites are smart enough to examine the contents of the
user agent header and incorporate this information in the
&HTML; code so that the content is displayed correctly
regardless of the browser used.</para>

<para>However, you may find that some web sites refuse to function
correctly unless you are using a browser recognized as
<quote>proper</quote> by that site. In these cases, you may find it
necessary to fool the web site by having &konqueror; report itself to be
another browser by means of the user agent header.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="user-agent-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>In this module you can configure the
type of browser that &konqueror; will report itself to be. You can
control this information by web site. Usually, the list box that is
labeled <guilabel>Site Specific Identification</guilabel> will be
empty, so that &konqueror; will always use its default useragent
string.</para>

<para>You can disable the sending of a user agent entirely, by
unchecking the <guilabel>Send identification</guilabel>
check box.  This may cause strange behavior on some sites, and may even
deny you access to some websites, so disable this with caution.</para>

<para>To configure a new agent binding, press the
<guibutton>New...</guibutton> button.  Type the name of the server or
a domain in the text box at the top of the dialog that pops up, which
is labeled <guilabel>When browsing the following
site</guilabel>.</para>

<para>Note that you can <emphasis>not</emphasis> use the wildcard
character <token>*</token> in this text box. However, the string
<userinput>kde.org</userinput> will match all hosts in the domain
<systemitem>kde.org</systemitem></para>

<para>After typing the name of the server, type in the identifying
string in the next combo box, which is labeled <guilabel>Use the
following identification:</guilabel>, or choose a string from the list. If
you don't choose a string from the list, you will need to know what a
valid string from the browser looks like. For example, you could type
<userinput>Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 4.0)</userinput>. </para>

<para>You can click on an existing entry in the list, and then modify the contents of the
text boxes, followed by clicking <guibutton>Change...</guibutton>.</para>

<para>The <guibutton>Delete</guibutton> button can be used to delete
the selected entry in the list of configured agent bindings.  The
<guibutton>Delete All</guibutton> will remove all the configured user
agent strings.  Click the <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to take your
changes in effect.</para>

<para>You can use the check boxes at the top of the screen to build a
user agent that is uniquely yours, by choosing your own combination of
operating system name and version, platform, processor type, and
language.</para>

<para>In all cases, the user agent that is being sent by default is
displayed in bold text at the top of the page.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>