<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY nsplugins-kcontrol SYSTEM "nsplugin.docbook">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="khtml-java-js" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Java and JavaScript</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2009-11-24</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>konqueror</keyword>
<keyword>browsing</keyword>
<keyword>Java</keyword>
<keyword>JavaScript</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="konq-browsing">
<title>&Java; and JavaScript</title>

<sect2 id="kbrowse-java">
<title>&Java;</title>

<para>&Java; allows applications to be downloaded and run by a web
browser, provided you have the necessary software installed on your
machine. Many web sites make use of &Java; (for example, online
banking services or interactive gaming sites). You should be aware
that running programs from unknown sources could pose a threat to the
security of your computer, even if the potential extent of the damage
is not great.</para>

<para>The check box <guilabel>Enable Java globally</guilabel> allows
you to turn &Java; support on for all web sites by default. You can
also select to turn &Java; on or off for specific hosts. To add a
policy for a specific host, click the <guibutton>New...</guibutton>
button to bring up a dialog in which you can type the host name and
then choose to accept or reject &Java; code from that particular host,
which will add the domain to the list on the left of the page.</para>

<para>You can select a host in the list, and click the
<guibutton>Change...</guibutton> button to choose a different policy for
that host. Clicking the <guibutton>Delete</guibutton> button removes the
policy for the selected host; after deletion, the global settings will
then apply to that host.</para>

<para>Finally, the group of controls labeled <guilabel>Java Runtime
Settings</guilabel> allows you to set some options for the way in
which &Java; should run.</para>

<para><guilabel>Use security
manager</guilabel> is normally enabled by default.  This setting will
cause the <acronym>JVM</acronym> to run with a Security Manager in place. This will keep
applets from being able to read and write to your file system, creating
arbitrary sockets, and other actions which could be used to compromise
your system. Disable this option at your own risk. You can modify your 
<filename>$<envar>HOME</envar>/.java.policy</filename> file with the
&Java; policytool utility to give code downloaded from certain sites
more permissions.</para>

<para><guilabel>Use KIO</guilabel> will cause the
<acronym>JVM</acronym>to use &kde;'s own <acronym>KIO</acronym>
transports for network connections.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Shutdown applet server when inactive for more than</guilabel>
check box allows you to save resources by closing the &Java; Applet
Server when it is not in use, rather than leaving it running in the
background.  Leaving this disabled may make &Java; applets start up
faster, but it will use system resources when you are not using a
&Java; applet.  If you enable this, you can set a timeout.</para>

<para>You can either opt to have &konqueror; automatically detect the
&Java; installation on your system, or specify the path to the
installation yourself by selecting <guilabel>Path to Java
executable or 'java'</guilabel>. You may want to choose the latter method, for
instance, if you have multiple &Java; installations on your system,
and want to specify which one to use. If the &Java; Virtual Machine
you are using requires any special startup options, you can type them
in the text box labeled <guilabel>Additional Java
arguments</guilabel>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kbrowse-javascript">
<title>JavaScript</title>

<para>Despite the name, JavaScript is not related at all to
&Java;.</para>

<para>The first part of this tab works the same as the &Java; settings.</para>

<para>The checkbox <guilabel>Enable JavaScript globally</guilabel> allows
you to turn JavaScript support on for all web sites by default. You
can also select to turn JavaScript on or off for specific hosts. To
add a policy for a specific host, click the
<guibutton>New...</guibutton> button to bring up a dialog in which you
can type the host name and then choose to accept or reject JavaScript
code from that particular host, which will add the domain to the list
on the left of the page.</para>

<para>You can select a host in the list, and click the
<guibutton>Change...</guibutton> button to choose a different policy for
that host. Clicking the <guibutton>Delete</guibutton> button removes the
policy for the selected host; after deletion, the global settings will
then apply to that host.</para>
<!-- missing section Debugging
Enable debugger Enables builtin JavaScript debugger.
Report errors Enables the reporting of errors that occur when JavaScript code is executed.
How are errors reported? popup window? icon in status bar?
-->
<para>The final set of options in the section <guilabel>Global JavaScript 
Policies</guilabel> determine what happens
when a page uses JavaScript for specific actions.</para>

<para>You can individually enable or disable the ability of JavaScript
to manipulate your windows by moving, resizing or changing focus.  You
can also disable JavaScript from changing the status bar text, so that
for instance, you can always see where links will take you when
clicked. The choices for these options are <guilabel>Allow</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Ignore</guilabel>.</para>

<para>For opening a new window, there is even more control.  You can
set &konqueror; to <guilabel>Allow</guilabel> all such requests,
<guilabel>Ask</guilabel> each time a request is made, or
<guilabel>Deny</guilabel> all popup requests.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Smart</guilabel> setting will only allow
JavaScript popup windows when you have explicitly chosen a link that
creates one.</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
