<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>
<article id="baloo" lang="&language;">
<title>File Search</title>
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>
    <firstname>Vishesh</firstname>
    <surname>Handa</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2021-04-06</date>
<releaseinfo>Plasma 5.20</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>Plasma</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>search</keyword>
<keyword>file</keyword>
<keyword>baloo</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<para>
This &systemsettings; module allows you to configure which files should be
indexed for fast searching.

It internally uses a technology called Baloo to efficiently search through the files.
</para>

<para>Add the widget <guilabel>Search</guilabel> to your panel or enable the search in &krunner;
to use the indexing results for faster access to your documents.
</para>

<para>
Activate the <guilabel>Enable File Search</guilabel> item if you want to use desktop search capabilities in &dolphin; and other &kde; applications. Uncheck the item if you do not want to use the file search with Baloo (it is possible to use other search technologies, &eg; &kfind;).
</para>

<para>Use <guilabel>Also index file content</guilabel> to also index the file contents additional to the file names.
</para>

<para>Check the <guilabel>Index hidden files and folders</guilabel> item to make Baloo index the hidden files and folders.
</para>

<note>
    <para>
        Any file or folder name that starts with a period (<literal>.</literal>) is hidden by default.
    </para>
</note>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Folder specific configuration</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
    <para>
        You are presented with a list of folders that can be indexed. By default only
        your entire <filename class="directory"><envar>$HOME</envar></filename> folder is
        indexed, and no other folders or drives are indexed.
    </para>
    <para>
        Removable media is never indexed by default. It can be explicitly removed from
        the list of excluded folders and it will then be indexed.
    </para>
    <para>
        It is possible to use the combo box next to each item in the list to configure if it is <guimenuitem>Indexed</guimenuitem> or <guimenuitem>Not indexed</guimenuitem>.
    </para>
    <para>
        Use the trash button to remove an item from the list.
    </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term><guibutton>Add folder configuration...</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
    <para>
        Press this button to open selector with two options, namely <guimenuitem>Start indexing a folder...</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Stop indexing a folder...</guimenuitem>.
    </para>
    <para>
        Clicking any of the above-mentioned options displays the standard &plasma; <guilabel>Select a folder to filter</guilabel> dialog and allows you to choose the folder to be treated accordingly.
    </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>For more info about additional configuration options &eg; how to add a drive mounted outside your 
<filename class="directory"><envar>$HOME</envar></filename> folder please read
<ulink url="https://community.kde.org/Baloo/Configuration">Baloo/Configuration</ulink>.</para>

</article>
