<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="netpref" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Connection Preferences</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2013-12-05</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.12</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdebase</keyword>
<keyword>kcontrol</keyword>
<keyword>network</keyword>
<keyword>timeouts</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="timeouts">

<title>Connection Preferences</title>

<para>Here you can set timeout values.  You might want to tweak them
if your connection is very slow, but the default settings are
appropriate for most users.</para>

<para>Here <guilabel>Timeout Values</guilabel> are the length of time
an application should wait for an answer from a network operation.</para>

<para>You can configure the following timeouts:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Socket read:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para> Some applications use <firstterm>sockets</firstterm> to
communicate.  You can think of a socket as a water tap; while it is
open, water (or in our case, data) comes out, without any interaction.
If something stops this flow of data, the application will wait for
more to come.  This could be a very long time, but you can configure a
maximum time for an application to wait with this option.</para>
<para>This setting will only apply to &kde; applications, of course.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Proxy connect:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Sets how long to wait for a connection to a proxy server, if one is configured.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Server connect:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Sets how long to wait for a connection to a remote server.  
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Server response:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Sets how long to wait for a reply from a remote server.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para>You can configure <guilabel>FTP Options</guilabel> here.  At
present there is just two options:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable passive mode (PASV)</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Passive &FTP; is often required when you are behind a firewall.
Many firewalls only permit connections that were initiated from
<quote>the inside</quote>.  Passive &FTP; is controlled by the client,
which makes it usable through firewalls.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mark partially uploaded files</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>When a mark is placed in this box, partially uploaded files will 
have a <literal role="extension">.part</literal> extension added to the end 
of the file. This extension is removed once the file download is complete. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>



</sect1>
</article>
