<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY nsplugins-kcontrol SYSTEM "nsplugin.docbook">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="khtml-behavior" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Web Browsing</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2011-11-11</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.10</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>konqueror</keyword>
<keyword>browsing</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="konq-browsing">
<title>Web Browsing</title>

<para>The &konqueror; Browser module of &systemsettings; allows you to select
various options for the behavior of &konqueror;, the
integrated web browser of &kde;.</para>

<para>If <guilabel>Ask for name and folder when adding bookmarks</guilabel> 
is checked, &konqueror; will allow you to change the title of the 
bookmark and choose a folder in which to store it when you add a new 
bookmark.</para>

<para>Enable <guilabel>Show only marked bookmarks in bookmark toolbar</guilabel>
and &konqueror; will show only those bookmarks in the 
bookmark toolbar which you have marked to do so in the bookmark editor.</para>

<para>The next option you can enable on this page is <guilabel>Form 
Completion</guilabel>.  If you check this box, &konqueror; will
try to remember what you answer to form questions, and will try to fill
in forms for you with the answers you previously used.</para>

<para>You can configure the number of form items &konqueror; remembers
with the spin box labelled <guilabel>Maximum
completions</guilabel></para>

<note><para>Of course, anything &konqueror; fills in a form with, you
can still edit before submitting the form!</para></note>

<para>The next option is <guilabel>Change cursor over
links</guilabel>. If this option is selected, the shape of the cursor
will change (usually to a hand) whenever it moves over a
hyperlink. This makes it easy to identify links, especially when they
are in the form of images.</para>

<para>If <guilabel>Middle click opens URL in selection</guilabel>
is checked, you can open the &URL; in the selection by middle 
clicking on a &konqueror; view.</para>

<para>As a convenience feature, if you enable <guilabel>Right click
goes back in history</guilabel>, then clicking an empty area (&ie; not
a link) in the &konqueror; window will act as if you pressed the
<guiicon>Back</guiicon> button on the toolbar.</para>

<para>Enabling <guilabel>Allow automatic delayed
reloading/redirecting</guilabel> allows websites to send you to
another page without your interaction.  In many cases, this is a
convenience.  For example, the website has moved to a new
&URL;.  Many webmasters in this situation will put up
a page on the old site, telling you that it has moved and you may like
to change your bookmark, and then automatically move you along to the
new website.  However, such features can be confusing, or annoying,
when misused, and so you may wish to disable it.</para>

<para><guilabel>Enable Access Key activation with &Ctrl; key</guilabel>: 
Pressing the &Ctrl; key when viewing web pages activates Access Keys. 
Unchecking this box will disable this accessibility feature. &konqueror; 
needs to be restarted for this change to take effect.</para>

<para><guilabel>Send the DNT header to tell web sites you do not want
to be tracked</guilabel>. Check this box if you want to inform a web site 
that you do not want to your web browsing habits tracked.
</para>

<para><guilabel>Offer to save website passwords</guilabel>.
Uncheck this box from being prompted to save website passwords
</para>
</sect1>

</article>
