<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY nsplugins-kcontrol SYSTEM "nsplugin.docbook">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>
<!-- extragear has another adblock ? -->
<article lang="&language;" id="khtml-adblock">
<articleinfo>
<title>AdBlocK Filters</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2011-11-22</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.8</releaseinfo>
</articleinfo>

<para>&konqueror; AdBlocK can be configured to replace or remove
images or frames from web pages that match a series of filters.</para>

<para>The setting <guilabel>Enable filters</guilabel> enables or
disables the use of list of URL filters.</para>
<para>If <guilabel>Hide filtered images</guilabel> is enabled then
blocked images are completely removed from the page and the space they
occupied is reclaimed. If the option is disabled then a placeholder
image is used in place of filtered images.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry id="khtml-adblock-manual">
<term><guilabel>Manual Filter</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The main part of this tab is a list of
URLs that will be compared against image and frame names to decide
on fitlering actions. The wildcards can be given as filename style
regular expressions.</para>

<para>Use the <guilabel>Search</guilabel> edit box above the list box 
to filter matching entries an the fly.</para>

<para>Each filter can either be expressed as a file style wildcard
string (e.g. http://www.site.com/ads/*) or as a full regular expression
by enclosing the filter with forward slashes (e.g. //(ads|dclk)\./).</para>

<para>Any filter string can be preceded by <literal>@@</literal> to whitelist 
(allow) any matching &URL;, which takes priority over any blacklist (blocking) 
filter.</para>

<para><guilabel>Import</guilabel> and <guilabel>Export</guilabel> will 
save or read the current filter list to a plain text file. The file begins with a 
header line <userinput>[AdBlock]</userinput>, then all of the filters follow each 
on a  separate line. Lines prefixed with an exclamation mark (<userinput>!</userinput>) 
and the header line are treated as comments and can be used 
to clarify or label a set of filters.</para>

<para>Highlight an entry from the list to change it in the edit box or remove this item.
Enter a new filter string here and add it to the list using the <guibutton>
Insert</guibutton> button.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="khtml-adblock-automatic">
<term><guilabel>Automatic Filter</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This tab shows a list of names and &URL;'s with predefined AdBlock filter entries. 
To enable an entry tick the checkbox beside the filter name and adjust the
<guilabel>Automatic update interval</guilabel> (default 7 days).
<!-- how goes it work? After 7 days eachtime going online with konqui the selected 
entries are updated in the background?
User notification about that?
-->
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
  
</variablelist>

<para>If AdBlock filters are enabled, an icon at the right side of status bar is shown.
Use a &RMB; click on this icon to open the context menu with actions to show all blockable 
elements on a web page, open this &systemsettings; module and disable blocking for a site 
or page temporarily.</para>

<para>A click with the &LMB; shows the dialog with all blockable elements on the opened web page
as well. From this dialog you can add new filters directly without opening this &systemsettings; 
module.</para>

</article>
