<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
<!ENTITY kappname "&sonnet;">
]>

<article id="spellchecking" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Spell Checker</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2021-04-08</date>
<releaseinfo>Plasma 5.20</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Spelling</keyword>
<keyword>dictionary</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="spellchecker">
<title>Spell Checker</title>
<para>The configuration options available here are used as default by all &kde;
applications that use &sonnet;, which is a frontend to various free spell checkers.</para>

<para>To use &sonnet; you need to install spell checkers like &eg; 
<ulink url="http://aspell.net/">&GNU; Aspell</ulink>,
<ulink url="http://hspell.ivrix.org.il/">Hspell</ulink> or 
<ulink url="https://hunspell.github.io/">Hunspell</ulink>
and additionally the corresponding dictionaries for your language.</para>

<para>The configuration options selected here can be overridden by each application.</para>

<para>In the drop down box <guilabel>Default language</guilabel> choose from the 
available dictionaries, which one to use for &sonnet;. </para>

<sect2 id="spell-options">
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>
 
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable autodetection of language</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This feature is based on several heuristics (script used, trigram matching and 
language ranking on available languages in the spell-checking backend). 
This allows it to automatically switch language in a multi-language document.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Automatic spell checking enabled by default</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If a mark is placed in this checkbox, the spelling of words will be check in your document 
as you type them. Misspelled will have a red line drawn under them.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Skip all uppercase words</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If a mark is placed in this checkbox, the spelling of any word which consists of all capital 
letters will not be checked.</para>
<tip><para>This is useful for document using a large number of acronyms. If this box is left unchecked, 
most of those acronyms will be incorrectly marked. By placing a mark in this checkbox, 
the acronyms will not be marked as misspelled.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Skip run-together words</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this box is not checked, then words that appear in the
dictionary separately, but have been run together, are considered to be
spelling errors. Examples of such words are shutout, cannot, and blackout.
</para>

<tip><para>Checking this box will help prevent applications from flagging website and email addresses 
for spelling errors. These addresses often contain words run together.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>
<!-- from koffice/kword/opt.docbook 1.6.2--> 
<sect2><title>Ignored words</title>
<para>The bottom half of the dialog box allows you to designate specific words (they may be specialized terminology, proper names, &etc;) which
should be ignored by the spelling program.</para>

<sect3><title>Adding a word to the ignore list</title>
<para>To add a word, type the word in the text box and click the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button.</para>
</sect3>

<sect3><title>Deleting a word from the ignore list</title>
<para>To remove a word, select the word in the listbox containing all the currently ignored words by clicking on it with
the &LMB;.  Now click the <guibutton>Remove</guibutton> button.</para>

<para>When you are happy with the changes, simply click
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton>.</para>

<para>Clicking on the <guibutton>Defaults</guibutton> button restores all
values to their default values.</para>
</sect3>

</sect2>
</sect1>

</article>
