<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="bookmarks" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<title>Bookmarks</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<personname><firstname>Xavier</firstname><surname>Vello</surname></personname>
<email>xavier.vello@gmail.com</email>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2010-09-24</date>
<releaseinfo>0.2 (&kde; 4.5)</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>bookmarks</keyword>
<keyword>KIO</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="conf">
<title>Bookmarks home page</title>
<para>This module lets you configure the bookmarks home page.</para>
<para>To view the bookmarks home page enter <userinput>bookmarks:/</userinput> in 
the location bar.</para>
<para>The settings in this module are also accessible by entering 
<userinput>bookmarks:/config</userinput> in the location bar.</para>
<sect2 id="conf-general">
<title>General settings</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Number of columns to show</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Folders are automatically distributed in several columns. The optimal number of columns depends on the width of the konqueror window and the number of bookmarks you have.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show folder backgrounds</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Disable it on slow system to disable background images.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="conf-bookmark">
<title>Bookmarks</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show bookmarks without folder</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is unchecked, bookmarks at the root of the hierarchy (not in a folder) are not displayed. If checked, they are gathered in a "root" folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Flatten bookmarks tree</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Sub-folders are shown within their parent by default. If you activate this option, sub-folders are displayed on their own. It looks less nice but it may help if you have a very big folder you want to spread in two columns.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show system places</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show a box with KDE places (Home, Network, ...). Useful if you use konqueror as a file manager.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="conf-cache">
<title>Pixmap cache</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Disk cache size</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specify how much disk space is used to cache the pixmaps.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Clear Cache</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Remove all cached images. This may be necessary if some favicons become corrupt and don't refresh automatically.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>
</sect1>
</article>
