<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="formats" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Formats</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
 </authorgroup>

	  <date>2015-05-18</date>
	  <releaseinfo>Plasma 5.3</releaseinfo>

	  <keywordset>
		<keyword>KDE</keyword>
		<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
		<keyword>locale</keyword>
		<keyword>country</keyword>
		<keyword>language</keyword>
		<keyword>number</keyword>
		<keyword>currency</keyword>
	  </keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<para>
This module of the &kde; &systemsettings; allows you to select customization
options that depend on the region of the world that you happen to live in.
</para>

<para>
In most cases, you can simply select the region, and all
options will be set in an appropriate manner.
</para>

<para>
On the bottom of this module you can see examples how the settings look
like and which measurement units are used. In addition to numbers, you can see 
how currency values, dates, and times in long and short format are displayed.
When you change any of the settings, the preview shows the effects of the
changes before you apply them.
</para>

<para>
The <guilabel>Region</guilabel> drop down box contains the list of available
countries and will initially show your currently selected country. If the
selection shows <quote>Default</quote> then you have not set a country
and are defaulting to the Country set by the system, which will also be shown.
</para>

<para>
In case you need different individual settings enable <guilabel>Detailed Settings</guilabel> 
and select the country format for <guilabel>Numbers</guilabel>, <guilabel>Time</guilabel>, 
<guilabel>Currency</guilabel>, <guilabel>Measurement Units</guilabel> or 
<guilabel>Collation and Sorting</guilabel> rules from the drop down boxes.
</para>

</article>
