<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="kcmsmserver" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Session Management</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Jost.Schenck; &Jost.Schenck.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2018-11-28</date>
<releaseinfo>Plasma 5.14</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>session</keyword>
<keyword>System Settings</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="sessions">
<title>Desktop Session</title>

<sect2 id="sessions-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>In this &systemsettings; module you can configure &plasma;'s session
manager and logout settings.</para>

<para>Session management refers to &plasma;'s ability to save the state
of applications and windows when you log out of &plasma; and restore them
when you log back in.</para>

<sect3 id="sessions-general">
<title>General</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Confirm logout</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is checked, when logging out, &plasma; will display a
dialog with a default timeout of 30 seconds asking for confirmation. In this dialog you can also choose
whether you want to restore your current session when you login the next
time.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Offer shutdown options</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is checked, &plasma; will offer a choice of actions during
logout.  These include simply ending the current session (the
action performed if shutdown options are not enabled) turning off the
computer, or restarting the computer.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="sessions-default-leave-options">
<title>Default Leave Option</title>
<para>You can configure what should happen by default when you log out of
&plasma;.  These options are not possible on all operating systems, and some of
them may not appear unless you are using &SDDM; as your login manager.</para>
<para>The options available are self explanatory, if you are in doubt,
leave the default settings.  They are:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>End current session</guilabel> (this is the default)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Turn off computer</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Restart computer</guilabel></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="sessions-on-login">
<title>On Login</title>
<para>You may choose one of three options on what should happen when
you log into &plasma;:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Restore previous session</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this option is checked, &plasma; will save your current
session's state when you logout.  &plasma; will restore your session on the
next login, so you can continue to work with a desktop just like you
left it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Restore manually saved session</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Instead of restoring &plasma; to the state it was when
you logged out last, it will be restored to a specific state that you
have saved manually.</para>
<para>If this option is checked, the application menu offers an additional item 
<menuchoice><guimenu>Power / Session</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save Session</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Start with an empty session</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you choose this option, &plasma; will never restore sessions that it has saved.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Finally, you can enter a colon (<literal>:</literal>) or comma (<literal>,</literal>)
separated list of applications that should be excluded from sessions,
and therefore will not be started when restoring a session.  For example
<userinput>xterm:konsole</userinput> or <userinput>xterm,konsole</userinput>.</para>
<!-- does this need the full path here? -->
</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>

