<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="translations" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Language</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
 </authorgroup>

	  <date>2015-05-18</date>
	  <releaseinfo>Plasma 5.3</releaseinfo>

	  <keywordset>
		<keyword>KDE</keyword>
		<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
		<keyword>locale</keyword>
		<keyword>country</keyword>
		<keyword>language</keyword>
		<keyword>translation</keyword>
		<keyword>Language</keyword>
	  </keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<para>
On this page you can set your preferred languages for the &kde; Workspace and
Applications to be displayed in.
</para>

<para>
The &kde; Workspace and Applications are written in American English and are
translated into many different languages by teams of volunteers. These
translations need to be installed first before you can choose to use them. The
list of <guilabel>Available Languages</guilabel> shows the localized language names of &systemsettings; translations
installed and available on your system. If the language you want to use is 
not shown in this list then you will need to install it using the usual method 
for your system.
</para>
<note><para>Ensure that you have installed the &kde; language packages or translations for the 
languages you want to use.</para>
<para>As &kde; is build upon the &Qt; libraries, you need the &Qt; translations for the selected
languages as well to have a fully localized &GUI;.</para></note>
<!--FIXME 
Toooltip in GUI about available languages is wrong as well
-->

<para>
The <guilabel>Preferred Languages</guilabel> list shows the localized language names that will
be used when displaying the &kde; Workspace and Applications. Because not all
of the KDE Workspace and Applications may be translated into every language
&kde; will try to find suitable translations for you by working down the
<guilabel>Preferred Languages</guilabel> list until it finds a translation. If
none of your preferred languages have a required translation then the original
American English will be used.
</para>

<para>
You can add a language to the <guilabel>Preferred Languages</guilabel> list by
selecting it in the <guilabel>Available Languages</guilabel> and then clicking
on the Add arrow button. If you have the listbox activated just type the first
letter of your desired language. Type the first letter again to step through all 
matching entries in the list.
</para>
<para>You can remove a language from the
<guilabel>Preferred Languages</guilabel> list by selecting it and then clicking
on the Remove arrow button. You can change the order of preference in the
<guilabel>Preferred Languages</guilabel> list by selecting a language and
clicking on the Up or Down arrow button.
</para>

<para>Only languages listed in <guilabel>Preferred Languages</guilabel> and 
<guilabel>Available Languages</guilabel> will be offered as options  
for <guilabel>Primary language</guilabel> and <guilabel>Fallback language</guilabel> 
in the <guilabel>Switch Application Language</guilabel> dialog of the 
<guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu.
<!--FIXME apparently wrong - only previously installed languages ?-->
</para>

<note>
<para>
Language and Formats are independent settings. Changing a language does
<emphasis>not</emphasis> automatically change the settings for numbers,
currency &etc; to the corresponding country or region.
</para>
</note>

</article>
