<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY nsplugins-kcontrol SYSTEM "nsplugin.docbook">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="khtml-plugins" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Browser Plugins</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni;</author><author>&Jost.Schenck;
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2009-11-24</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>Konqueror</keyword>
<keyword>Browsing</keyword>
<keyword>Plugins</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>
<!--from the old konqueror handbook - reuse it here? lueck 05-2010
<para>The <guilabel>Global Settings</guilabel> page controls how &kde; scans for new
&Netscape; plugins, either manually by pressing the <guibutton>Scan for 
Plugins</guibutton> button or automatically each time &kde; starts up.</para>

<para>The dialog box also contains a checkbox <guilabel>
Enable plugins globally</guilabel> which you can use to enable or disable 
plugins that can be contained in <acronym>HTML</acronym> pages (these can 
be considered a security risk).</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Plugins</guilabel> page shows you the &Netscape; plugins
that &kde; has found, and for each plugin it lists the <acronym>MIME</acronym>
types and the filename suffixes it uses to recognize them.</para>

<para>The scan is done by looking through the folders listed in the
<guilabel>Scan Folders</guilabel> list for <literal
role="extension">.so</literal> files containing plugin code. It examines every
such file to find out which <acronym>MIME</acronym> types the plugin
supports. It then creates <acronym>MIME</acronym> type definitions for &kde; in
the user's <filename class="directory"> ~/.kde/share/mimelnk</filename>
folder to make other applications aware of them.</para>
-->
<sect1 id="konq-browsing">
<title>Browser Plugins</title>

<sect2 id="kbrowse-plugins">
<title>Global Settings</title>

<para>The first setting here is <guilabel>Enable Plugins
globally</guilabel>.  If you disable this check box, then &konqueror;
will not use any plugins.  If you enable it, then any installed and
configured plugins that it can find will be used by &konqueror;</para>

<para>You can also restrict &konqueror; to <guilabel>Only allow HTTP
and HTTPS URLs for plugins</guilabel> by checking the box.</para>

<para>The next option determines, if plugins are loaded on demand only.</para>
<para>Use the slider labeled <guilabel>CPU priority for plugins</guilabel> 
to adjust this setting.
</para>

<para>Click the <guibutton>Domain-Specific Settings</guibutton> button to open
a dialog where you can set specific plugin policies for any particular 
host or domain. These policies will be used instead of the default policy for 
enabling or disabling plugins on pages sent by these domains or hosts.</para>
<para>
Add a new policy here or select a policy and use the controls on the right to modify it.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="nsplugins">
<title>Plugins</title>

<sect3 id="nsplugins-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>As &Netscape;'s <application>Navigator</application> has been a
web browsing standard for many years, so-called &Netscape; plugins have
appeared that allow rich web content.  Using those plugins, web sites
can contain <acronym>PDF</acronym> files, flash animations, video, &etc;
With &konqueror;, you can still use these plugins to take advantage of
rich web content.</para>

<note><para>&Netscape; plugins should not be confused with &konqueror;
plugins. The latter ones specifically extend &konqueror;'s
functionality; they are normally not used to display rich web
content.</para></note>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="nsplugins-scan">
<title>Scan for Plugins</title>

<para>&konqueror; has to know where your &Netscape; plugins are
installed.  This can be in several places, &ie; you might have
system-wide plugins in <filename
class="directory">/opt/netscape/plugins</filename> and your personal
plugins in <filename
class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/.netscape/plugins</filename>.
However, &konqueror; will not automatically use the installed plugins:
it first has to scan a list of folders.  You can initiate the scan
by clicking <guibutton>Scan for Plugins</guibutton>.</para>

<para>To find plugins, &konqueror; will look in the folders
specified in the <guilabel>Folders</guilabel> frame.  When you
use this control module for the first time, this list will already be
filled with reasonable paths that should work on most operating systems.
If you need to provide a new path, click the <guibutton>New</guibutton>
button; then you can either enter the new path in the text edit box to
the left, or choose a folder using the file dialog by clicking the
<guibutton>Open file</guibutton> icon.  As scanning the folders can take
a little time, you might want to remove folders from the list where
you know that no plugins are installed: do this by selecting a folder
and clicking <guibutton>Remove</guibutton>.  Using the
<guibutton>Up</guibutton> and <guibutton>Down</guibutton> buttons you
can change the order in which folders will be scanned by moving the
selected folder up or down.</para>

<para>As usual, click <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to save your changes
permanently.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="nsplugins-plugins">
<title>Plugins</title>

<para>In this section, you can see a list of the &Netscape; plugins found by
&konqueror;, displayed as a tree.  Double click on a plugin to fold it
out and you will see that the different mime types this plugin can handle
will be displayed as branches.  Fold out a mime type to see its
info.</para>

<para>This list is only for informational purposes.</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>
</sect1>

</article>
