<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="proxy" lang="&language;">
<title>Proxy</title>
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2013-12-05</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.12</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>proxy</keyword>
<keyword>proxies</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="proxies">
<title>Proxies</title>

<sect2 id="proxies-intro">

<title>Introduction</title>

<para>Proxies are programs running on a computer that acts a server on
the network you are connected to (whether by modem or other
means). These programs receive &HTTP; and &FTP; requests, retrieve the
relevant files from the internet, and pass them on to the client
computer that made the requests.</para>

<para>When you have configured a proxy, &HTTP; and/or &FTP; requests
are re-routed through the computer that is acting as a proxy server.
However, you can also select specific hosts which should be contacted
directly, rather than through the proxy server. If you are on a local
network, for example, access to local hosts probably doesn't need to
go through a proxy server.</para>

<para>You should only need to configure a proxy server if your network
administrator requires it (if you are a dial-up user, that would be
your internet service provider or <acronym>ISP</acronym>). Otherwise,
especially if you are feeling a bit confused about this proxy
business, but everything seems to be fine with your internet
connection, you don't need to change anything.</para>

<para>Please note that using proxy servers is optional, but has the
benefit or advantage of giving you faster access to data on the
internet.</para>

<para>If you are uncertain whether or not you need to use a proxy
server to connect to the internet, please consult with your internet
service provider's setup guide or your system administrator.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="proxies-use">

<title>Use</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>No Proxy</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>Select this option if you do <emphasis>not</emphasis> want to use a proxy server
and connect to the Internet directly.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>If you have decided to use a proxy, you have several methods to
configure the settings for it.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Detect proxy configuration automatically</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>Select this option if you want the proxy setup configuration
script file to be automatically detected and downloaded.</para>
<para>This option only differs from the next choice in that it
<emphasis>does not</emphasis> require you to supply the location of
the configuration script file. Instead, it will be automatically
downloaded using <quote>Web Proxy Auto-Discovery</quote> 
(<acronym>WPAD</acronym>) protocol.</para>

<note><para>If you have a problem using this setup, please consult the
<acronym>FAQ</acronym> section at <ulink
url="http://www.konqueror.org">http://www.konqueror.org</ulink> for
more information.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use proxy auto configuration URL</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Select this option if your proxy support is provided through a
script file located at a specific address.  You can then enter the
address in the location text box, or use the <guiicon>folder</guiicon>
icon to browse to it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use system proxy configuration</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Some systems are setup with $<envar>HTTP_PROXY</envar> to allow
graphical as well as non-graphical applications to share the same
proxy configuration information.</para>
<para>If you know this applies to you, select this option and click on
the <guibutton>Auto Detect</guibutton> button to provide the environment
variable names used to set the address of the proxy server(s).</para>
<!-- Exceptions fields are different for system proxy (envar) + manual proxy list of hosts/IPs? -->
<para>In the <guilabel>Exceptions</guilabel> field enter the environment variable, 
&eg; $<envar>NO_PROXY</envar>, used to store the 
addresses of sites for which the proxy server should not be used.</para>
<para>Use <guilabel>Show the value of the environment variables</guilabel> to 
show the value of an environment variable instead of its name.
However it is not possible to edit the values of environment variables in this module.</para>
<!--
How to enable Auto Detect button?
-->

</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use manually specified proxy configuration</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>The complete addressing information for the proxy includes both
the Internet address and a port number. You should enter these into
the relevant text boxes. Check <guilabel>Use this proxy server for all 
protocols</guilabel> to copy the addresses and port of the HTTP proxy server 
into all other proxy fields, in order to help save some typing.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Exceptions</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enter a comma separated list of hostnames or ip addresses that should 
be excluded from using the above proxy settings. If you want to exclude all 
hosts for a given domain, then simply enter the domain name preceded by a dot. 
For example, to exclude all hostnames for kde.org, enter <userinput>.kde.org</userinput>. 
Wildcard characters such as <userinput>*</userinput> or <userinput>?</userinput> 
are not supported and will have no effect. 
Additionally, you can also enter IP addresses, e.g. 127.0.0.1 and 
IP addresses with a subnet, e.g. 192.168.0.1/24.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>You can also choose <guilabel>Use proxy settings only for addresses 
in the Exceptions list</guilabel>.</para>

<para>Check this box to reverse the use of the exception list, &ie;
the proxy servers will only be used when the requested &URL; matches
one of the addresses listed here.</para>

<para>This feature is useful if all you need is a proxy to access a
few specific sites, for example, an internal intranet.  If you have
more complex requirements you might want to use a configuration
script.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
<!-- not in 4.8 anymore

What if authorization is needed?

<sect2 id="authorization">
<title><guilabel>Authorization</guilabel></title>

<para>Here you can choose between two types of authentication, if your
proxy requires it.  You can have <guilabel>Prompt as
needed</guilabel>, the default, in which case &konqueror; will only
ask for a username or password if it needs to.</para>

<para>The other option is to use automatic login.
Select this option and enter <guilabel>Username</guilabel> and <guilabel>Password</guilabel>.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="options">
<title><guilabel>Options</guilabel></title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use persistent connections to proxy</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Use persistent connection to your proxy server. Keeps connection to proxy open, helps lower bandwidth/speed up connection. Enabling this option will require the proxy server's cooperation, if the proxy server does not support this, it will bring your internet to a stop. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
-->
</sect1>

</article>
