<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="attica" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<title>Social Desktop</title>
<authorgroup>
<author><personname><firstname>Frederik</firstname><surname>Gladhorn</surname></personname>
<email>gladhorn@kde.org</email>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2013-11-05</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.12</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>Social Desktop</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<para>The Social Desktop (Open Collaboration Services) settings module lets you 
configure your user accounts for Open Collaboration Service Providers.</para>

<para>At the time of writing <ulink url="http://opendesktop.org/">openDesktop.org
</ulink> is the first provider that you can use.
You can use the web site or this settings dialog to register and manage your account.
</para> 

<para>The benefit is that you can do more things in <quote>Get Hot New Stuff</quote>: 
vote for items, become a fan of them and upload new content. A configured 
account also allows you to use the social Plasma widgets (<quote>Community</quote>, 
<quote>Social News</quote> &etc;) to their full extent.
</para>

<para>Using the &systemsettings; module:</para>

<para>You can select which provider to configure at the top.
Either enter your existing user name and password to let &kde; use them. 
You can verify that these work by using the <guibutton>Test Login</guibutton> button</para>

<!--
missing:
Enable
Add/Remove Providers-->

<para>If you do not have an account yet, use the <guilabel>Register</guilabel> tab.
Here you need to fill out all fields.
After clicking <guibutton>Register...</guibutton> you will receive an email from the 
server to activate your account.
</para>

</article>
